# [Project Name] in Python*

## Introduction

This smart doorbell application is part of a series of how-to Intel® Internet of Things (IoT) code sample exercises using the Intel® IoT Developer Kit, Intel® Edison development platform, cloud platforms, APIs, and other technologies.

From this exercise, developers will learn how to:<br>
- Connect the Intel® Edison development platform, a computing platform designed for prototyping and producing IoT and wearable computing products.<br>
- Interface with the Intel® Edison platform IO and sensor repository using MRAA and UPM from the Intel® IoT Developer Kit, a complete hardware and software solution to help developers explore the IoT and implement innovative projects.<br>
- Run this code sample in Intel® XDK IoT Edition, an IDE for creating applications that interact with sensors and actuators, enabling a quick start for developing software for the Intel® Edison board or from the Intel® Galileo board.<br>
- Store the doorbell ring data using Azure Redis Cache\* from Microsoft\* Azure\*, Redis Store\* from IBM\* Bluemix\*, or ElastiCache\* using Redis\* from Amazon Web Services\* (AWS), different cloud services for connecting IoT solutions including data analysis, machine learning, and a variety of productivity tools to simplify the process of connecting your sensors to the cloud and getting your IoT project up and running quickly.
- Set up a MQTT-based server using IoT Hub from Microsoft\* Azure\*, IoT from IBM\* Bluemix\*, or IoT from Amazon Web Services\* (AWS), different cloud machine to machine messaging services based on the industry standard MQTT protocol.

## What it is

[Content Here]

## How it works

[Content Here]

## Hardware requirements

[Content Here]

## Software requirements

1. Microsoft\* Azure\*, IBM\* Bluemix\*, or AWS account (optional)

### How to set up

To begin, clone the **How-To Intel IoT Code Samples** repository with Git* on your computer as follows:

    $ git clone https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/how-to-code-samples.git

To download a .zip file, in your web browser go to <a href="https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/how-to-code-samples">https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/how-to-code-samples</a> and click the **Download ZIP** button at the lower right. Once the .zip file is downloaded, uncompress it, and then use the files in the directory for this example.

### Installing the program manually on the Intel® Edison board

Alternatively, you can set up the code manually on the Intel® Edison board.

Clone the **How-To Intel IoT Code Samples** repository to your Intel® Edison board after you establish an SSH connection to it, as follows:

    $ git clone https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/how-to-code-samples.git

Then, navigate to the directory with this example.

To install Git\* on the Intel® Edison board (if you don’t have it yet), establish an SSH connection to the board and run the following command:

    $ opkg install git

### Connecting the Grove\* sensors

[Content Here]

### Connecting the DFRobot\* sensors

[Content Here]

### Manual Intel® Edison board setup

If you're running this code on your Intel® Edison board manually, you will need to install some dependencies.

To obtain the Python\* packages needed for this example to execute on the Intel® Edison board:

Establish an SSH connection to the board and navigate to the directory with this example.

Then run the following commands:

    $ pip install --upgrade pip
    $ pip install -r requirements.txt

### Intel® IoT Gateway setup

You can run this example using an Intel® IoT Gateway connected to an Arduino\*/Genuino\* 101.

Make sure your Intel® IoT Gateway is setup, by following the directions on the web site here:

https://software.intel.com/en-us/node/633284

You must install the Intel® XDK on the Intel® IoT Gateway, by following the directions on the above link, under the section "Connecting to the Intel® XDK".

The Arduino\*/Genuino\* 101 needs to have the Firmata\* firmware installed. If you have IMRAA installed on your gateway, this will be done automatically. Otherwise, install the StandardFirmata or ConfigurableFirmata sketch manully on to your Arduino\*/Genuino\* 101.

You will also need to configure the `config.json` in the example to use the Arduino\*/Genuino\* 101. See the section "Configuring the example" below.

### Data store server setup

Optionally, you can store the data generated by this sample program in a back-end database deployed using Microsoft\* Azure\*, IBM\* Bluemix\*, or AWS, along with Node.js\*, and a Redis\* data store.

For information on how to set up your own cloud data server, go to:

[https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/intel-iot-examples-datastore](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/intel-iot-examples-datastore)

### MQTT server setup

You can also optionally store the data generated by this sample program using MQTT, a machine-to-machine messaging server. You can use MQTT to connect to Microsoft\* Azure\*, IBM\* Bluemix\*, or AWS.

For information on how to connect to your own cloud MQTT messaging server, go to:

[https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/intel-iot-examples-mqtt](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/intel-iot-examples-mqtt)

## Configuring the example

[Content Here]

## Running the program manually

To run the example on the Intel® Edison board, establish an SSH connection to the board and execute the following commands:

Navigate to the directory with this example on the Edison.

Then run the following command:

    $ python .

### Determining the Intel® Edison board's IP address

You can determine what IP address the Intel® Edison board is connected to by running the following command:

    ip addr show | grep wlan

You will see the output similar to the following:

    3: wlan0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc pfifo_fast qlen 1000
        inet 192.168.1.13/24 brd 192.168.1.255 scope global wlan0

The IP address is shown next to `inet`. In the example above, the IP address is `192.168.1.13`.

IMPORTANT NOTICE: This software is sample software. It is not designed or intended for use in any medical, life-saving or life-sustaining systems, transportation systems, nuclear systems, or for any other mission-critical application in which the failure of the system could lead to critical injury or death. The software may not be fully tested and may contain bugs or errors; it may not be intended or suitable for commercial release. No regulatory approvals for the software have been obtained, and therefore software may not be certified for use in certain countries or environments.
