# Earthquake detector in Java*

## What it is

Using a compatible Intel-based platform, this project lets you create an earthquake detector that:

- senses motion using a digital accelerometer.
- checks live earthquake data, using the USGS API.
- displays an earthquake warning on the LCD.

## First time setup
For all the samples in this repository, see the [General Setup Instructions](./../../README.md#setup) for required boards and libraries.

## Hardware requirements

### Grove\*

Sensor | Pin
--- | ---
Grove\* 3-Axis Digital Accelerometer | I2C
Grove\* RGB LCD | I2C

#### DFRobot\* 

Sensor | Pin
--- | ---
One end of a DFRobot\* cable into the plug labeled "X" on the Triple-Axis Accelerometer | A1
One end of a DFRobot\* cable into the plug labeled "Y" on the Triple-Axis Accelerometer | A2
One end of a DFRobot\* cable into the plug labeled "Z" on the Triple-Axis Accelerometer | A3

More details on the hardware requirements can be found in the [project README](./../README.md)

## Software requirements

1. [Intel® System Studio](https://software.intel.com/en-us/creating-iot-projects-with-intel-system-studio-2018-java)
2. [MRAA](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/mraa) and [UPM](https://upm.mraa.io) 

## Configuring the example
### Clone the repo
Clone the How-To Code Samples repository with Git* on your computer as follows:

$ git clone https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/how-to-code-samples.git
To download a .zip file, in your web browser go to https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/how-to-code-samples and click the Download ZIP button at the lower right. Once the .zip file is downloaded, uncompress it, and then use the files in the directory for this example.

### Set up the source files
You now need to copy the source files and the config file to the project.
Drag all of the files from your git repository's "src" folder into the new project's src folder in Intel® System Studio. Make sure previously auto-generated main class is overridden.

The project uses the following external jars: [gson-2.6.1](http://central.maven.org/maven2/com/google/code/gson/gson/2.6.1/gson-2.6.1.jar). These can be found in the Maven Central Repository. Create a "jars" folder in the project's root directory, and copy all needed jars in this folder.
In Intel® System Studio, select all jar files in "jars" folder and  right click -> Build path -> Add to build path

Now you need to add the UPM jar files relevant to this specific sample.
Right-click on the project's root -> Build path -> Configure build path. Java Build Path -> 'Libraries' tab -> click on "add external JARs..."

For this sample you will need the following jars:

1. upm_i2clcd.jar
2. upm_mma7660.jar

The jars can be found at the IOT Devkit installation root path\iss-iot-win\devkit-x86\sysroots\i586-poky-linux\usr\lib\java

### Preparing your target platform before running the project

In order for the sample to run you will need to copy some files to your board. This can be done using SCP through SSH.<br>
Two sorts of files need to be copied from the sample repository:

1. Jar files- external libraries in the project need to be copied to "/usr/lib/java"

### Set the kit
To configure the example for the specific hardware kit that you are using, either Grove\* or DFRobot\* you will need to change the `INTEL_IOT_KIT` key in the `config.properties` file to either **GROVEKIT** (this is the default) or **DFROBOTKIT**, depending on which hardware kit you wish to use. For example:

```

  INTEL_IOT_KIT=GROVEKIT

```

### Expected output
You will see output similar to below when the program is running.

```
Checking... 
No quake. 
```

### IoT cloud setup (optional)

You can optionally store the data generated by this sample program using cloud-based IoT platforms from Microsoft Azure\*, IBM Bluemix\*, AT&T M2X\*, AWS\*, Predix\*, or SAP\*.

For information on how to connect to your own cloud server, go to:

[https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/iot-samples-cloud-setup](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/iot-samples-cloud-setup)


### Data store server setup (optional)

Optionally, you can store the data generated by this sample program in a backend database deployed using Microsoft Azure\*, IBM Bluemix\*, or AWS\*, along with Node.js\*, and a Redis\* data store.

For information on how to set up your own cloud data server, go to:

[https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/intel-iot-examples-datastore](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/intel-iot-examples-datastore)

IMPORTANT NOTICE: This software is sample software. It is not designed or intended for use in any medical, life-saving or life-sustaining systems, transportation systems, nuclear systems, or for any other mission-critical application in which the failure of the system could lead to critical injury or death. The software may not be fully tested and may contain bugs or errors; it may not be intended or suitable for commercial release. No regulatory approvals for the software have been obtained, and therefore software may not be certified for use in certain countries or environments.
