# Equipment Activity Monitor in JavaScript*

## What it is

Using a compatible Intel-based platform, this project lets you create a shop-floor equipment activity monitor that:<br>
- tracks equipment usage by monitoring sound and vibration sensors.<br>
- issues a visual notification whenever the equipment is in use.<br>
- logs equipment usage using cloud-based data storage.

## First time setup  
For all the samples in this repository, see the [General Setup Instructions](./../../README.md#setup) for required boards and libraries. You need either Grove or DFRobot sensors but not both.

## Hardware requirements

### Grove\*

You need to have a Grove\* Shield connected to an Arduino\* compatible breakout board to plug all the Grove\* devices into the Grove\* Shield. Make sure you have the tiny VCC switch on the Grove\* Shield set to **5V**.

Sensor | Pin
--- | ---
Grove\* Sound Sensor | A0
Grove\* Piezo Vibration Sensor | A2
Grove\* RGB LCD | I2C

### DFRobot\*

You need to have a LCD Keypad Shield connected to an Arduino\* compatible breakout board to plug all the DFRobot\* devices into the LCD Keypad Shield.

Sensor | Pin
--- | ---
Analog Sound Sensor | A1
Digital Vibration Sensor | A2

More details on the hardware requirements can be found in the [project README](./../README.md)

## Software requirements

1. [MRAA](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/mraa) and [UPM](https://upm.mraa.io) 
1. Node.js 
2. [MRAA and UPM Node.js bindings](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/upm/blob/master/docs/installing.md)
2. Packages as listed in the package.json file in this example 
2. Microsoft Azure\*, IBM Bluemix\*, AT&T M2X\*, AWS\*, Predix\*, or SAP\* account (optional)

## Configuring the example

To configure the example for the Grove\* kit, just leave the `kit` key in the `config.json` set to `grove`. To configure the example for the DFRobot\* kit, change the `kit` key in the `config.json` to `dfrobot` as follows:

```
{
  "kit": "dfrobot",
  "VIBRATION_THRESHOLD": 100,
  "NOISE_THRESHOLD": 140
}
```

To configure the example for the optional Microsoft Azure\*, IBM Bluemix\*, or AWS data store, add the `SERVER` and `AUTH_TOKEN` keys in the `config.json` file after the required `VIBRATION_THRESHOLD` and `NOISE_THRESHOLD` keys as follows:

```
{
  "kit": "grove",
  "VIBRATION_THRESHOLD": 100,
  "NOISE_THRESHOLD": 140,
  "SERVER": "http://intel-examples.azurewebsites.net/logger/equipment-activity",
  "AUTH_TOKEN": "s3cr3t"
}
```

For information on how to configure the example for an optional Microsoft Azure\*, IBM Bluemix\*, AT&T M2X\*, AWS\*, Predix\*, or SAP\* IoT cloud server, go to:

[https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/iot-samples-cloud-setup](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/iot-samples-cloud-setup)

## Running the program 

To run this example on the board, simply enter

    $ npm install
    $ npm run
    $ ./equipment-activity-monitor
    
You will see output similar to below when the program is running.

```
Noise level: 305
Value: start 2016-04-22T02:54:15.946Z 
Connecting to MQTT server... 
MQTT message published: { d: { value: 'start 2016-04-22T02:54:15.951Z' } }
Vibration: 48 
```

Refer to [How it Works](./../README.md#how-it-works) for details on the functionality.

### IoT cloud setup (optional)

You can optionally store the data generated by this sample program using cloud-based IoT platforms from Microsoft Azure\*, IBM Bluemix\*, AT&T M2X\*, AWS\*, Predix\*, or SAP\*.

For information on how to connect to your own cloud server, go to:

[https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/iot-samples-cloud-setup](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/iot-samples-cloud-setup)

### Data store server setup (optional)

Optionally, you can store the data generated by this sample program in a back-end database deployed using Microsoft Azure\*, IBM Bluemix\*, or AWS, along with Node.js\*, and a Redis\* data store.

For information on how to set up your own cloud data server, go to:

[https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/intel-iot-examples-datastore](https://github.com/intel-iot-devkit/intel-iot-examples-datastore)

IMPORTANT NOTICE: This software is sample software. It is not designed or intended for use in any medical, life-saving or life-sustaining systems, transportation systems, nuclear systems, or for any other mission-critical application in which the failure of the system could lead to critical injury or death. The software may not be fully tested and may contain bugs or errors; it may not be intended or suitable for commercial release. No regulatory approvals for the software have been obtained, and therefore software may not be certified for use in certain countries or environments.
